Kafka client code examples (#753)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/development/code-examples.mdx

---
title: Kafka Client Code Examples
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Kafka client code examples | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="How to produce to and consume from Redpanda in a variety of languages."/>
</head>

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Redpanda is Kafka® API-compatible, which
means that despite Redpanda being a new streaming data platform, you can 
leverage the countless client libraries that have been created for Kafka®. If 
you find something that is not supported, reach out to our team in the
community <a href="https://redpanda.com/slack">Slack</a>.

> This tutorial walks you through how to get started with a variety of

Reviewer: Just noticed this--the topic title is Kafka Client Code Examples, but here you call it a tutorial. This wording must be consistent. So either rename this section "Kafka Client Code Tutorial", or update this line to read: "This Kafka client code example..."

Author: I've updated to use "example" rather than "tutorial".

Kafka® client libraries by creating a topic, producing some data, and consuming
it back.

## Set up Redpanda

> Follow the [quickstart](../../quickstart) guide to spin up a development

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [Quickstart](../../quickstart) guide to spin up a development
```

environment on your platform of choice. If you already have a Redpanda Cloud

> cluster, then you're good to go; we'll show you how to connect to that too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cluster, then you're good to go; this example will show you how to connect to that too.
```

:::caution
If you're running Redpanda on your laptop, or in a shared development
environment, then avoid using Redpanda's optimized production settings. Running
`sudo rpk redpanda tune all` or manually configuring Redpanda for production
might affect your experience with other applications running on your machine.
:::

## Prepare the client environment

<Tabs groupId="lang">
<TabItem value="go" label="Go" default>

Download and install Go from [go.dev](https://go.dev/doc/install).

> This tutorial uses the [franz-go](https://github.com/twmb/franz-go) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Kafka client code example uses the [franz-go](https://github.com/twmb/franz-go) 
```

---

> title: Kafka client code examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Kafka Client Code Examples
```

---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Kafka client code examples | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="How to produce to and consume from Redpanda in a variety of languages."/>
</head>

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Redpanda is Kafka® API-compatible, which means that despite Redpanda being a
new streaming data platform, you can leverage the countless client libraries

> that have been created for Kafka®. If you find something that is not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that have been created for Kafka. If you find something that is not
```

Reviewer: You only need to use the trademark when using "Apache Kafka", and then, only upon the first instance of it in a topic.

> As you probably have heard by now, Redpanda is Kafka® API-compatible, which
> means that despite Redpanda being a new streaming data platform, you can 
> leverage the countless client libraries that have been created for Kafka®. If 
> you find something that is not supported, reach out to our team in the
> community <a href="https://redpanda.com/slack">Slack</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redpanda is Kafka® API-compatible, which
means that despite Redpanda being a new streaming data platform, you can 
leverage the countless client libraries that have been created for Kafka®. If 
you find something that is not supported, reach out to our team in the
community <a href="https://redpanda.com/slack">Slack</a>.
```

> This example walks you through how to get started with a variety of Kafka®

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example walks you through how to get started with a variety of Kafka
```

> In this tutorial we will demonstrate how to get started with a variety of
> Kafka® client libraries by creating a topic, producing some data, and consuming
> it back.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial walks you through how to get started with a variety of
Kafka® client libraries by creating a topic, producing some data, and consuming
it back.
```

> ## Setup Redpanda

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up Redpanda
```

> Follow our [quickstart](../../quickstart) guide to spin up a development
> environment on your platform of choice. If you already have a Redpanda Cloud
> cluster, then you're good to go, we'll show you how to connect to that too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [quickstart](../../quickstart) guide to spin up a development
environment on your platform of choice. If you already have a Redpanda Cloud
cluster, then you're good to go; we'll show you how to connect to that too.
```

:::caution
If you're running Redpanda on your laptop, or in a shared development
environment, then avoid using Redpanda's optimized production settings. Running
`sudo rpk redpanda tune all` or manually configuring Redpanda for production
might affect your experience with other applications running on your machine.
:::

## Prepare the client environment

<Tabs groupId="lang">
<TabItem value="go" label="Go" default>

> Download and install Go from the [go.dev](https://go.dev/doc/install) website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download and install Go from [go.dev](https://go.dev/doc/install).
```

> In this tutorial we will use the [franz-go](https://github.com/twmb/franz-go) 
> library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial uses the [franz-go](https://github.com/twmb/franz-go) 
library.
```

```bash
# Create and enter the project folder
mkdir redpanda-go; cd redpanda-go
# Initialize the project
go mod init com/redpanda/example
# Install required dependencies
go get github.com/twmb/franz-go
go get github.com/twmb/franz-go/pkg/kadm
go get github.com/twmb/tlscfg
go get github.com/twmb/franz-go/pkg/sasl/scram@v1.9.0
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="Node.js" default>

> Download and install Node.js from [here](https://nodejs.org/en/download). In 
> this tutorial we will use the [KafkaJS](https://kafka.js.org/) library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download and install Node.js from [here](https://nodejs.org/en/download). This tutorial uses the [KafkaJS](https://kafka.js.org/) library.
```

```bash
# Create and enter the project folder
mkdir redpanda-node; cd redpanda-node
# Generate package.json (the default values are fine)
npm init
# Install required dependencies
npm i -D typescript
npm i -D @types/node
npm i kafkajs
# Generate tsconfig.json
tsc --init
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="py" label="Python" default>

Download and install Python 3 from 

> [python.org](https://www.python.org/downloads). In this tutorial we will use
> the [kafka-python](https://kafka-python.readthedocs.io/en/master/) library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[python.org](https://www.python.org/downloads). This tutorial uses
the [kafka-python](https://kafka-python.readthedocs.io/en/master/) library.
```

```bash
# Create and enter the project folder
mkdir redpanda-python; cd redpanda-python
# Create virtual environment
python3 -m venv .env
source .env/bin/activate
# Install dependencies
(.env) pip install kafka-python
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Create topic

> Let's get started by creating our first Redpanda topic. You can create a topic
> using Redpanda's command line interface 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's get started by creating your first Redpanda topic. You can create a topic
using Redpanda's command line interface 
```

[rpk](../reference/rpk/rpk-commands.mdx):

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="local" label="Local" default>

```bash
rpk topic create demo
TOPIC  STATUS
demo   OK

rpk topic list
NAME  PARTITIONS  REPLICAS
demo  1           1
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cloud" label="Cloud" default>

```bash
# Set the REDPANDA_BROKERS environment variable with the comma-separated list
# of cluster hosts. You can copy the list from the Overview tab in Redpanda 
# Cloud.
export REDPANDA_BROKERS="<TODO: change this to your cluster hosts>"

# Before running this command, create a service account in the Security tab in
# Redpanda Cloud and add the necessary ACLs to allow the service account to
# create, write to, and read from a topic with the name `demo`.
rpk topic create demo \
  --tls-enabled \
  --sasl-mechanism SCRAM-SHA-256 \
  --user "<TODO: change this to your service account name>" \
  --password "<TODO: change this to your service account password>"

TOPIC  STATUS
demo   OK
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> It's just as easy to create a topic programmatically:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also create a topic programmatically:
```

    } else {
      fmt.Printf("Created topic '%s'", ctr.Topic)
    }
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="Node.js" default>

```javascript title="admin.ts"
const {Kafka} = require("kafkajs")

const redpanda = new Kafka({brokers: ["localhost:9092"]})
const admin = redpanda.admin()

admin.connect().then(() => {
  admin.createTopics({
    topics: [{
      topic: "demo",
      numPartitions: 1,
      replicationFactor: 1
    }]
  })
  .then((resp) => {
    resp ? console.log("Created topic") :
      console.log("Failed to create topic")
  })
  .finally(() => admin.disconnect())
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="py" label="Python" default>

```python title="admin.py"
from kafka import KafkaAdminClient
from kafka.admin import NewTopic
from kafka.errors import TopicAlreadyExistsError

admin = KafkaAdminClient(bootstrap_servers="localhost:9092")

try:
  demo_topic = NewTopic(name="demo", num_partitions=1, replication_factor=1)
  admin.create_topics(new_topics=[demo_topic])
  print("Created topic")
except TopicAlreadyExistsError as e:
  print("Topic already exists")
finally:
  admin.close()
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Connecting to Redpanda Cloud

> Connecting to a local Redpanda cluster (or a cluster with no security) is as 
> simple as specifying a list of brokers, but how does this differ in Redpanda
> Cloud?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connecting to a local Redpanda cluster (or a cluster with no security) is as 
simple as specifying a list of brokers; however, this is done differently in Redpanda
Cloud.
```

> Redpanda Cloud can be configured to use SASL/SCRAM (username and password) or
> mTLS based [authentication](../security/authentication.mdx). These modes of
> security require some additional parameters to be specified when creating a
> client connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure Redpanda Cloud to use SASL/SCRAM (username and password) or
mTLS based [authentication](../security/authentication.mdx). These modes of
security require some additional parameters to be specified when creating a
client connection.
```

    // cert: fs.readFileSync("client.crt", "utf8"),
    // key: fs.readFileSync("client.key", "utf8"),

    // Custom CA is only required if you are using self-signed certificates
    // ca: fs.readFileSync("ca.crt", "utf8")
    },
    sasl: {
      mechanism: "scram-sha-256",
      username: "<TODO: change this to your service account name>",
      password: "<TODO: change this to your service account password>"
    }
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="py" label="Python" default>

```python
from kafka import KafkaProducer

producer = KafkaProducer(
  bootstrap_servers="<TODO: change this to your cluster hosts>",
  security_protocol="SASL_SSL",
  sasl_mechanism="SCRAM-SHA-256",
  sasl_plain_username="<TODO: change this to your service account name>",
  sasl_plain_password="<TODO: change this to your service account password>",
  
  # mTLS client certificate and private key can be downloaded from the
  # Overview tab in the Redpanda Cloud UI:
  # ssl_certfile="client.crt",
  # ssl_keyfile="client.key",

  # Custom CA is only required if you are using self-signed certificates
  # ssl_cafile="ca.crt"
)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Create producer

> Now that we have a topic, let's create a producer and send some messages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have a topic, you can create a producer and send some messages:
```

from kafka.errors import KafkaError

producer = KafkaProducer(bootstrap_servers="localhost:9092")
hostname = str.encode(socket.gethostname())

# Produce asynchronously
for i in range(100):
  msg = f"message #{i}"
  producer.send(
    "demo",
    key=hostname,
    value=str.encode(msg)
  )
producer.flush()

def on_success(metadata):
  print(f"Sent to topic '{metadata.topic}' at offset {metadata.offset}")

def on_error(e):
  print(f"Error sending message: {e}")

# Produce asynchronously with callbacks
for i in range(100, 200):
  msg = f"message with callbacks #{i}"
  future = producer.send(
    "demo",
    key=hostname,
    value=str.encode(msg)
  )
  future.add_callback(on_success)
  future.add_errback(on_error)
producer.flush()

# Wait for every future to produce synchronously
for i in range(200, 300):
  msg = f"synchronous message #{i}"
  future = producer.send(
    "demo",
    key=hostname,
    value=str.encode(msg)
  )
  try:
    metadata = future.get(timeout=5)
    print(f"Sent to topic '{metadata.topic}' at offset {metadata.offset}")
  except KafkaError as e:        
    print(f"Error sending message: {e}")
    pass
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Create consumer

> Finally, let's create a consumer to read the data back out of the topic:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can create a consumer to read the data back out of the topic:
```

```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Running

<Tabs groupId="lang">
<TabItem value="go" label="Go" default>

```bash
# Create the topic
go run admin.go
# Produce some data
go run producer.go
# Consume it back
go run consumer.go
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="Node.js" default>

```bash
# Create the topic
tsc admin.ts && node admin.js
# Produce some data
tsc producer.ts && node producer.js
# Consume it back
tsc consumer.ts && node consumer.js
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="py" label="Python" default>

```bash
# Create the topic
(.env) python3 admin.py
# Produce some data
(.env) python3 producer.py
# Consume it back
(.env) python3 consumer.py
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Wrapping up

In this tutorial you have developed the building blocks of a Redpanda client
application that creates a topic, produces messages to, and consumes messages
from a Redpanda cluster running in a local environment, or in Redpanda Cloud.

The code examples provided in this tutorial are intentionally simple to help
you get started. For more advanced examples, including how to build stream 
processing applications that can aggregate, join, and filter your data streams,

> please check out the following links:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
check out the following links:
```
